Donald Trump has decided that he doesn't like Iran
He doesn't really care about the words of experts of IAEA
He's not really interested in the opinion of countries that made their best to solve all the diplomatic issues
The main task is to change all the things, which were made by Obama
He started to threaten Iran directly
As a result we have another extremely unpleasant tension in the Middle East
This night Israel attacked military bases of Iran located in Syria
They explained such harsh measures with an attack of Israeli forces located near Holland Heights.
According to our Ministry of Defense, more than a half of the missiles were intercepted with the air defense systems.
Both Israel and Iran don't really want to create more tension in this situation
However, any unwanted and unpleasant action can cause a massive war even today
Because when they take a fundamental agreement
about Iran, and remove its foundation, destroying all the progress
They destroy everything at once. That means we can wait for more tension in Syria
I can even predict that the USA will drop bombs on the territory of Iran
They will use the same logic. They will tell: "We think that nuclear centers are located here, here and there."
They also may use depth bombs. We have seen one of them in Afghanistan.
They will say: "Look! We are liberating the people of Iran."
From the air! From the air!
As usual. Who's going to be extremely happy? Saudi Arabia
they will support all their action
Of course, Israel will support the USA because Iran wants to eliminate such country as Israel
and the UAE. The thing is that Trump requires something, which can't be completed or achieved by any country.
So they are trying to say: "Oh, Iran, you have to stop breathing."
Because their requirements are simply impossible to be met! Please tell me what's going on there!
You have no idea about Trump. He's a businessman, he's a developer
He's a person, who earns a lot of money
He knows how to talk with politicians, even though he may have a lack of experience in direct communication with the most important politicians from all over the world.
In fact this problem is not about defense or the national security policies
This is a financial question. The thing is that the entire situation creates threat for the financial system of the USA.
And it affects the financial system in both ways: the monetary policy and revenue security
Trump continued to follow all stages of the settlement plan
until the moment when people came to him
those were financial experts, who told him: "Look, it's time to get our money back!"
Nobody knows the amount of Iran's money blocked in the USA
there are many versions, but let's say there are 150 billion USD
150 billion USD
We passed the first stages of the agreement, and the time has come
Now it's time to bring the money back
Trump is a businessman, so he asked: "What are we going to get in return?"
These amounts of money are frozen in the USA since the late 70's, and all of them are invested in local bonds
and the national treasuries
What's going to happen if we return them to their legal owners, and they will sell them?
The Minister of finances predicts an immediate default
We can't bear it because selling 150 billion USD at once will kill the exchange
Trump asks about the consequences for the dollar, and gets the very same answer
Iran will introduce a law, making EURO the unique currency, which can be used there
There are many other currencies, but they will use EURO.
Have you noticed that Trump is trying to be polite? He managed to shift the final date more than several times.
He gave enough time for Iran to think
He offered them to find a mutually beneficial solution. He asked Iran not to withdraw the money, but they told him that there's no such person, who can make such a decision.
Both the president and the spiritual leader can't make such decision
The main problem is money. All other things are made to make the entire situation look better.
All wars happen because of money
Yes, all the wars start because of money
We need to remember the last days of De Gaulle regime.
He sent two ships of dollars, asking to change them to real gold
Later he faced student protests, and had to leave his office
Yes, yes... let's move on
Americans don't really want to go deeper, bombing Iran and spending a lot of time in the region
They need to leave Middle East
They have a new strategic threat, and they don't have enough money to cover all the problems
These days the key strategic threat for the USA is China
After solving the problem of the South China Sea
when Chinese submarines have successfully entered the Pacific Ocean
They can attack the USA anytime
But who has money?
Both Pentagon and the Ministry of Defense do
Saudis have money! And they will pay the fortune to destroy their key strategic enemy!
Saudis are rich, but they are not as rich, as you, Vladimir Rudolfovoich (the host), think
They have a deep crisis, and they don't have money now!
I can even see their tears (Saudis)
They cry every single day because they have no money
And they enter new and new agreements to buy and sell weapons
I came from Tehran just one day before yesterday!
I came a couple of days ago after spending 20 days there
You are lucky enough to return before the bombing
I think that this version is viable, but
this is not the key problem, and the problem is different
Even during his presidential campaign Trump said that
he would break this deal
He called the deal useless and catastrophic
This deal was made by Obama
And he does that not because he wants to destroy the legacy of Obama! Of course no.
I think this problem is much deeper than we think
And today we can only compare the information. There are three key points of the conflict.
Far East and North Korea
Syria and Iran
Trump tried to find the ways to make an agreement about Syria
And they are still trying to make something, working in the direct cooperation
on several layers: military, political and diplomatic.
He managed to work with both North Korea and South Korea
He also worked with the main "Master" and protector of North Korea - China
But he always knew how to find a solution. He couldn't find the similar approach for Iran.
These days, when we know that the USA will leave JCPOA
Trump creates tension with his NATO allies
and political partners within the EU
He's not interested in anything, and this is his bee in the bonnet
He wants to destroy Iran
Why? It's a key for the Middle East
Americans have lost their control in a zone, which has always been considered a strategic one for them
In 2015, Putin took all this in his hands, and started moving forward
and Russia finally managed to return to Middle East
using Syria.
Only now Trump understands that
the key for Middle East is hidden in Iran
His allies shall be Saudi Arabia and Persian monarchies
not to mention Israel
and I think that he managed to open a new business of the day
discussing the future war in the region
Just think, what can happen in this situation?
If Trump, keeping his inability to make consequential actions,
sees that he can't find an agreement with his European partners,
he will face total lack of understanding from China - it's obvious
because China has already expressed its will
He may stop any talks with his allies and partners, switching to the military phase.
But he never did this in Korea
Host: it's too early to say that!
Korea has nuclear weapons
But Iran doesn't have, and it can't protect itself
They can easily buy it from Pakistan
I think that Iran
will find its own approach to the entire situation, and we can discuss it too
But everything depends on the position of the USA
And they can use the same "method of the flask"
with no evidence
confronting everyone
Just look at the actions of the USA in Middle East! They are sending troops every single day!
Host: Will they attack Iran?
They will
They will do!
Host: I think the same.
The fact that Israel has already checked the position of Iran on Syria
allows us to predict future attacks
they can even use the most powerful bombs
keeping the provisions of their new nuclear strategy
they can even use nuclear bombs of low power
He told everything. Trump never hides anything!
He says: "I will show you something, which you've never seen before!"
He said the same things in Korea
Hmmm... He had to use more complex statements in Korea
Korea has nuclear weapon and Korea has missiles
There's no problem... Iran can easily buy a nuclear bomb from Pakistan
Host: They can't!
There's no problem at all
They have a key, which can be used to explode everything!
They won't do that for sure
They are too late...
I wouldn't be so sure that they are late
Did they buy it?
No... and that's the thing!
They would tell me for sure
No we have to think about our 90 billion USD, which are kept in bonds in the USA. Are we going to have the very same scenario?
No, that's simply impossible
You need to listen him! He's a candidate to be a vice-prime minister, and he's says such behavior is going to be financial terrorism.
He says it's simply impossible!
Americans can't lie because they have such sincere eyes... But I want to highlight three main points:
All these things remind me the situation in the 70's
They make a set of small attacks and provocations, which destabilize the entire situation.
resulting in a massive conflict.
Keeping in mind the current situation, such massive conflict may be launched virtually any time.
It can develop really fast, as a result of wrong actions, misunderstandings and interpretations.
Let's imagine that a missile from an Arabic country will reach an oil refinery in Haifa.
And Israel has to answer such actions, there's no other option.
The second point is also really important
Trump is always pushing people to be hurry
I think... he promised to make all these things on 12th
He couldn't even wait for that date
He doesn't know what dialog is. Trump can work only in the monologue mode.
Do you understand me? In my opinion the leader of North Korea is the winner in this situation.
Why? He pressed Trump and insisted on the dialog.
They had a dialog in the field of power, when each action from one side resulted in a similar action from the other side.
But still, it was a dialog.
What's the point of it?
The point is really simple.
No, I'm talking about other things.
By leaving this agreement unilaterally, Trump has shown to the entire world that any agreement with the USA is not worth even the paper, which was used to print it.
Yes!
If a president signs an agreement, and UN Security Council accepts a resolution of the agreement
Then the USA elects a new president who says: "What's this? I don't like it, and I want to quit."
Another great thing is the fact that we can see the real price of the US allies
I'm talking about allies in Europe. They are nothing, and their opinion means nothing too.
Trump is scared of the dialog. I think he was afraid of an offer to find a solution for the entire situation.
and he decided to act first.
And he needs a war!
Yes, he needs a war!
And the last... I don't want to say that, but he needs a war in any case.
And the last point. There's a giant American group located in the region.
Keeping in mind that they have some secret resources in Qatar, UAE and Saudi Arabia
I would say that they are ready to start something. Maybe it's not an average conflict, but they can make three waves of aerial attacks. And they have enough resources for that.
And I have real doubts that Iranian air defense system will be able to resist such attacks.
Furthermore, there are high chances that Saudi Arabia can become a sacred victim in this case
And we are going to have a totally new situation.
Nobody will use their own wallet as a victim.
But they may insist, and ask their wallet (Saudi) to pay for them.
That's another point.
Saudi money is kept out of Saudi Arabia
If they decided to betray Saudi Arabia, they need to ask the following question: Who will take money?
Money will be kept in the very same US bonds
That's why I wouldn't ignore this option.
In addition to all other things, this situation clearly demonstrates us who starts all the wars on the planet.
They often accuse Russia, saying that we increased tension, we did one thing, we did another thing
And Russia makes the world a terrible place, preparing the ground for World War 3
In fact, all these problems are the result of the US global policies
Their policy is based on conflicts. They can't exist without conflicts
They need conflicts to support and protect their mastery and reign.
In case when there are no conflicts, countries are not scared on the US mastery
countries start to avoid believing you, that's why Americans
that's why the USA has to replicate their own behavior in order to rule the world, and show their power
The USA creates the risk of total elimination of the world and World War 3 by implementing their weird policies
Their European allies became aware of this fact just now. They understood that they are useless, and nobody is going to listen to them.
But they are not blind nor deaf. They can see the results created by their American patrons.
The USA destroys their (EU) normal relations with the countries like Russia, while the EU could benefit from such relations
Now let's talk about Iran
I understand the level of tension in this case
But I don't think there will be any kind of a massive attack towards Iran
Which problems are they going to solve by performing such an attack?
Will they solve the problem of changing the leader in Iran?
I'm not sure. Will they eliminate Iran as a key player in the region?
I don't think so. Iran won't simply disappear
That's my opinion. Of course, they can do something like that, but
such action will never allow reaching the goals, which the USA had set many years before.
They have the following term - unacceptable losses
They will give an adequate answer for any attack from the air
Iran will enter Iraq
How?
They will invade Iraq and Syria
Iran will never attack the territory of the USA
They will attack Iraq really easy. They have a lot of bases there. There are many soldiers too
And it's not an occasion that they started all these things now. Do you remember that Iran was full of protests just a while ago.
And those protests weren't light and easy, as it was predicted before.
A couple of important cities were invaded by protesters
And the reaction of the government was not really good.
The elite of the Iran...
they are divided into many parts
The most important thing is the fact that both conservators and reformers are having almost the same level of popularity.
There's no difference among them now. They are balanced.
They can change the regime with a single attack.
That's why we see such a harsh reaction of the country leader.
He is aware of the fact that if they don't have nuclear resources to resist the USA, they will face an inevitable catastrophe.
I want to agree with the majority of you
The main thing is the fact that Trump it trying to avoid impeachment prepared by the Democratic Party
That's why he's trying to deal with Korea, and spending his tie to solve the problem of Iran.
We need to understand that Iran is not just a country as a piece of land
Iran is a major player. Iran is in Syria, Iran is in Yemen
Iran is in Afghanistan
Do you remember his words when he decided to leave this agreement on nuclear weapons?
He said that now we are going to talk about the system of ballistic missiles
and we are going to discuss the influence of Iran in Syria, Lebanon, Iraq and Yemen.
Let's talk about the attack that took place last night
It happened after the visit of Netanyahu to Moscow
Probably he informed them about the reaction to any provocation
Second thing that the attack was made when Hezbollah won parliamentary elections in Lebanon
Now such response for their provocation can be made from Lebanon and from the south of Syria.
In just a couple of days Iraq is going to have parliamentary elections too
There are high chances that the supporters of Iran will win them
So the fact that Iran takes power in all problematic regions
We remember that Israel was able to enter Syria and perform attacks, having zero response from local armies
Last night we saw something new for the first time.
Israel never shares information, and we can talk about 220 or 40 rockets coming from the other side, but we will never know the real number.
and we don't know how they landed. Just a couple of months ago F15 or F16 of Israeli forces was downed in Syria
The region is facing a new balance of powers. Before that time the USA was able to work there having no issues
And now they are facing a lot of issues.
Americans have never been attacked in the east of Syria
It's really easy to make that. They can be attacked in Iraq too
There's a base there too. Iran has a lot of ballistic missiles
Hezbollah has 150 thousand missiles
So try to imagine the number of weapons in Iran!
150 000?!
Yes, they have 150 000 in the south of Lebanon.
They are low- and mid- range missiles, but they will reach their targets for sure
And we can see that so-called "Metal shield" of Israel
shows that some rockets can't be intercepted
I think that 150 000 is too much.
No, we are talking about small missiles.
We are talking about so-called 'hurricane' - you need 16 of them for a single shot.
and it turns out...
These numbers were published in media, but they are considered exaggerated
Of course!
Even if they have 50 000...
I feel myself in the middle of an eastern market (bazaar)
But look.
Well, 50 thousand or 150...
If they decide to attack Iran, there may be an adequate answer because they have a lot of bases in the gulf
They can easily answer... They can do the same in Afghanistan too
But you need to understand that such attacks are not occasional, and they are not blind
They are trying to hit the most important military objects too
They attack headquarters and air defense systems
We have to understand one important thing before talking about the problems between Iran and Israel
Before Iran, the entire Islamic world considered Israel an enemy.
Today Iran and Shias are considered enemies
So the current shape and state of Iran is really useful for Israel
Israel says: "Let Iran stop talking about the elimination of Israel, and we will be fine with them."
It really helps Likud and Netanyahu to create a consolidated position
You need to understand that people can claim virtually anything
So, is Iran useful for them too?
These are politics, and you politicians can say many different things too
I want to add that there are things, which are not discussed, but they are even more serious than Syria and Iraq
I'm talking about Pakistan and Bahrain
If Iran stops their actions, Pakistan will simply blow up, and Bahrain will add more tension too
When was it a problem for the USA?
It's a miracle for them. In case of a conflict all money will flow to the quiet and peaceful USA
You are not fair, Vladimir (host). You think that all evil things in this world happen because of Donald Trump
You are copying them! They are sure that all the evil comes from here
I have a different logic. They are making all these things for many years in a row. And it's not because of Trump. I understand that he's just a representative of a bunch of elite people
They want to create chaos
They realized that controlled chaos is the best solution for them.
The USA has a strategy in the Middle East
They are making clear and smart steps. They are not trying to hide them too.
And we are trying to ignore all these things. Making a pokerface, and trying to say that all people and countries are smart and clever.
The USA says: there are no international institutions
There are no allies, but only servants, who will do whatever we tell them to do.
We don't care about our previous agreements, if such agreements are not beneficial for us today.
They are not trying to hide this
But it's a logic of a normal person, and not a logic of the Doctor Evil.
This is a logic of a country, which is sure in its superior position in all aspects including military.
This country is sure that it's exceptional
They are sure that the USA is the source of good power and kindness.
They are sure that all the terrible actions are signs of kindness.
All the evil things are caused not by Donald Trump, but by crazy money, which you mentioned before.
But I wouldn't talk only about money, especially in case with the Middle East, where even the smallest problem is complex and multifaceted.
What can we see? We can see the intention to increase the tension in the region
The actions of Trump are not only an invitation to start the war, but
it's an invitation to chaos and instability
Is he ready to attack Iran?
It can be one of possible scenarios. But there's another scenario, which was tested in Iraq before.
They imposed serious sanctions for 12 years (until 2012)
First sanctions were from the US
later Europe joined them too
and the international sanctions were imposed at the last stage.
What are the key features of the modern sanctions, which were announced by Donald Trump together with the cancellation of the agreement?
They main feature is that these sanctions will be directed not towards Iran, but towards its partners
European?
Yes, European and Asian countries
many other countries, including China!
And our companies are smart enough not to participate there (irony)
Trump wants to attack countries having partnership with Iran
They are not hiding it, and these sanctions will be imposed in the next 180 days.
I have to say that those sanctions are too strict
As I know, they include finances, oil, machinery and so on
Finances and energy resources...
Not only, they will attach car manufacturers too
Have you been to Iran? It's really scary to use local airlines
Planes are extremely old, and it's still like that
So Iran needs new planes to update their fleet
But the US sanctions prevent them from doing so
And it will get worse when the USA starts to attack partners of Iran
But European companies will lose billions, won't they?
Having no hope for compensation because the USA is really easy about that - wait 6 months, and say bye-bye
The strange thing is that Europe accepts such unacceptable behavior of the US elephant dancing in the pottery shop
That's another problem.
They are not sure if they are ready to agree with them.
They are trying to find a way to make an illusion of sanctions, while keeping their freedom
That's what Macron does these day, trying to avoid obstacles
French economy will be affected more than other countries
France has an agreement with Iran
to build 100 Airbus planes
The thing is that more than 10% of spare parts for Airbus are made in the USA
Airbus has no right to supply their planes to Iran
France managed to deliver only 2 Airbus planes from 100
It means they can simply forget about this order
How many working places will be lost in France? Those are high-qualified specialists
The next aim is Mercedes. They have already started construction of their factory in Tehran.
How many working places are going to be lost in Germany?
And when this wave will hit Europe back, they have to calculate the losses for such sanctions imposed by the USA.
Elena was right. These sanctions are totally different.
These sanctions will affect Europe too.
And Russia simply can't produce enough planes...
Are you talking about MS21 plane?
China is ready to supply enough planes
That's the problem. We would be happy, but we can't produce so many planes.
But we can send our buses there, can't we?
We can even add a pair of wings to the bus, and hit it with a leg...
but it's not going to fly too long.
We can supply cars, buses, trains and carriages. We can supply many other things too.
All we have to do is to forget about sanctions
They exist only in the imagination of the USA.
Do we have to forget about 90+ billion of dollars hidden somewhere in the USA?
We really hope that our Minister of Finances will understand the entire case, and he will get the idea that we need to return our money!
I think that he has to
It seems that you are an optimist, my dear!
I feel that I'm Lenin
His assignment to the new position will confirm all his previous ideas and actions
But we need to discuss it again and again to avoid using such phrases as "financial terrorism"
We need to invite him and ask about his plan of actions
What is the financial program of the new government?
We need to invite and ask. I read their decrees published in May, and I have one question: who's going to implement all of them?
Oh, I forgot! Mutko will! (Mutko is the Minister of Sport, who's famous with the lack of actions, and his ability to remain in his role despite the scandals).
Mutko will adjust the entire system!
He we make it "from my heart" (famous phrase of Mutko, when he spoke English using Russian transcription)
We can send Mutko to Iran, and he will solve all the problems there.
But if we forget about jokes... Angela Merkel called the head of Iran for talks today
She confirmed that Germany is not going to leave the deal, condemning the attack on Israel
She said that the political behavior of Iran has to be discussed
Macron is hesitant too, and this is a magic time for our diplomacy!
Russia and China can benefit from it!
Deputy MFA Sergey Repko is in Tehran right now exactly for the mentioned reason.
This is not true... Macron and Merkel, they are...
We need to change "politic" program with "ballistic" program
There are two layers. Europe is trying to look hesitant, but they are saying that Iran can't do anything in order not to offend Europe. So it's just another trick.
Europe will continue pushing Iran to avoid making any decisions or actions.
They will say: relax, don't do anything, maybe it will be solved really soon
They are saying: "Oh, honey, you need to wait, and everything will fade away."
By doing so they make things even worse for Iran
One of the leaders of Iran said that Europe won't be able to hold the situation
Europe won't be able to hold the USA, so the agreement is doomed even today,
I know why they can't use the same model with Iran
Because Merkel and Macron are holding talks with Ruhani
While the spiritual leader is responsible for the nuclear field
He has already said that they don't believe Europe too
So we are going to answer immediately when these measures are implemented
We need to have a break now, and then we can continue our discussion
We need to understand that all actions of Trump are made to enforce the positions of the Conservative Party
in Iran. When they discussed the nuclear program of Iran in Vienna
Ruhani as a president, Zarif as a foreign minister - they both represent reformers
Conservative party was blaming them for agreements with USA and Europe
Now all these reformers will leave the stage
The stage will be taken by more conservative extremists, who will use harsh methods against the USA
If we look at the attacks of Israel against Syria
Everything happened when parties tried to find an agreement on the future of the southwest of Syria, or so-called de-escalation zone
Israel wants both Iran and Hezbollah to leave that region
It's still a form of dialog. But today we need to understand what's going to happen next?
The next question is the role of Turkey in the north of Syria
So this temporary union of Russia, Turkey and Iran
is under attack now. All actions of the USA are directed to destroy it because they failed to do so in the political field.
All political things about Syria are moving to Astana from Geneva
Both USA and Europe don't like that
So they are using military ways to change this situation
If conservative forces take power in Iran
there'll be hell to pay
Trump wrote that 5 leaders of ISIS were arrested a couple of days ago
Turkey arrested one of the leaders, and sent him to Iraq
They used specific smartphone applications
it's called Telegram, to find three more allies in Baghdad
who were responsible for all financial question. Turkish and US Special Forces have already arrested them.
I think they will end this Book of ISIS, and will start a new story for Shias
They will try to explode Iran using ultraconservative forces, and adding some Marxism there too
Because they can use Kurds as the foundation for such movement
So they will use such a sly way, combining forces of Kurds and Shias
They won't be able to end this "Book" really fast, because the USA needs ISIS
They need it not only as an enemy, but as a reason to stay in the region.
They can use this "sauce" to cook a lot of dishes
They can make the very same ISIS from Shias
But where? Iraq will be soon controlled by pro-Iran forces
Hezbollah is in Lebanon now
Syria is looking mostly towards Russia, but there's a lot of people supporting Iran
We had to start our political of Syria many days before!
We are working there
The Ministry of Defense is using a really clever approach
They train the elite forces of Syrian army, but we need to work with political elites too
That's what the center of peace does in Syria
The USA will try to remove Assad, and put someone who likes America
In a year he we say: Russians, go away from here! You were invited by a bloody dictator
The main problem that they don't have such person. If we look at the coalition in Turkey
They've already created a new party in the East of Syria
They don't have enough influence and power in the region!
They will have soon!
They are preparing everything now!
They will bring him from another place like always before.
If we look back in time, the current leaders of Iraq was brought by Iran and USA
In 2003 when US Forces entered Iraq, they were accompanied by Iraqi Shias
So all their scandals are temporary. Something happened now...
Trump avoided impeachment, and he will get ready for new presidential terms
They don't think like that! The US court blames Shias for the attack
which was made in 2001 by Sunnis.
The idea that Iran paid for it schizophrenic!
Everybody understands that!
But the US court is schizophrenic enough to make such decisions
Iran is not Libya, and it's not Iraq
Trump doesn't really care about that
There's a popular joke in Tehran and Damascus
This is a very suspicious joke, and they use it only when they talk about the Russian politics
They say - wait until the end of the World Cup
They predict that Russia will change its behavior right after it
What about economy? Do we have to wait until the end of World Cup too?
Unfortunately, yes!
We have new parliament now
Now we are connecting to the city of Tel Aviv to talk with Yakov Kedmi
I'm really happy to hear and to see you Yakov
Hello and good evening!
I'm happy to hear you, but I don't see you now
Could you tell us if we have to wait an attack from the USA towards Iran?
What are the consequences of this deal cancellation, and what's the level of Tension in the Middle East?
There are 2 main problems: first of all, the things, which Trump has already started
He's using a typically America approach
They use the very same approach towards Russia
They want to create economic pressure, which will result in economic problems
Mad people will destroy the current power and politics, and will be happy to see American marionettes
And people will be told that new power will solve all the economic problems
They have no idea about the level of danger when they are trying to use the same approach to Iran
They are too naive to believe that mad people are able to make revolutions
They don't understand that revolution will only happen in a country where the current regime is too weak to control anything
Iran is totally different
The regime in Iran is powerful land cruel, they are ready to suppress any protests
There's no problem in sending 100-1000 people to Allah
and sending 1000 or 10000 to the jail.
But the USA is not aware of this fact, and we can't change that
So at this stage they are trying to work using the economic pressure
But they will face a problem with Europe
They need to rape Europe to make them agree to such measures despite their real interests
and they have to implement sanctions against Iran
The USA wants to use economic pressure on Europe, thinking that
for Europe it's more important to save relations with the USA than with Iran
If they continue to blackmail Europe in the economic field, they may reach their evil goals
But all these actions won't change anything in Iran
Trump has already noticed that he can use other methods, but
they made a big strategic mistake here
Sanctions of the USA will weaken Iran even without Europe
However, weak Iran will be more loyal to Russia, and Russia will get more influence in the region.
It will happen because only Russia (and China) supports Iran
It his case the USA will face another failure. Only Russia will be able to control Iran and affect its behavior.
Can they use deep bombs, and other weapons to attack location where allegedly Iran continues to create nuclear weapons?
First of all, nobody says that Iran is still developing nuclear weapons
People are saying that Iran stopped all works in 2003
Since then they are only trying to enrich Uranium
But the nuclear program was totally terminated
The process of enrichment is also terminated
It was stopped in according with the agreement, which was just terminated by the USA
So today nobody says that Iran continues to develop nuclear weapons
Iran can continue this work only in 7 years, when the agreement is over.
But there's nothing like that today
In other hand, 4 or 5 years ago Pentagon made the following conclusion
military approach can't be used to terminate nuclear projects of Iran
this problem can be solved only in the political field
even many years ago the USA said that their military intervention would slow the process down, delaying it by 1-2.5 years in total
I quoted Pentagon. And today Iran is really powerful, and the USA have no chances to invade and conquer it
Even at that time CIA gave the following information. I think they say the same today, but Trump pays no attention to their words
CIA says that any external attack on the country will not only not weaken the power, but will make it even stronger!
Consequences of such actions are totally unpredictable. Please note that those are words of CIA, and not my opinion
Such invasion may weaken the position of the USA in the region.
Do we have to wait for another attacks from Israel towards Syria on allegedly Iranian military bases located there?
First of all, 20 Iranian rockets were launched from the territory of Syria
last night they were sent to Israel
And Israeli air forces had to prevent that attack
So we can't say "allegedly" because those rockets are real, and they can be used to attack countries
But the thing is that the Minister of defense of Israel said that this case is solved
We don't want to continue any military operation
We don't have any aggressive intentions toward Iran, and we don't want to change anything there
The same goes for Syria. If Iran continues to participate in the civil war on the side of Assad, Israel won't be disturbed or worried.
But when Iran tried to use Syria as the base to attack Israel, our country (Israel) had to answer
The same goes for the case when Iran tries to gives dangerous types of weapons to Hezbollah
We have the following situation for today
We made a serious attack on Iranian structures in Syria
Now we need to look at the actions of Iran
If they accept the position of our MOD that the problem is solved, there will be no further actions
If they decide to make an answer, we will be ready to move to the next stage, which may result in a serious war
It happened many time in the Middle East: in 1967
it happened because things went out of control
both sides decided to show their power, naively thinking that there would be no war
at the end they had to start the war because there were no other options
the same scenario can be used here, and I want to remind you one thing
leaders of the Middle East are always thinking that any military actions or wars won't be successful for them
but they are too hysterical, so they can't avoid the war
keeping the domestic instability in mind
so there are high chances that the first attack will be the last one
in other hand, Iran may show their carelessness, and make new attacks, similar to the previous one. This will result in a new war in the Middle East
It's horrible! Thank you, Yakov!
I want to comment his words now
Both USA and Trump don't care if Iran follows the provisions of the nuclear agreement or it does not.
They don't care if Iran has nuclear weapons or not!
Trump has already defined a long term strategy
And that means he wants to create a new geopolitical situation in the region
and the most dangerous thing is the current talks with Egypt, Saudi Arabia and other monarchies of the region. These talks may be the foundation of a giant catastrophe, which will destroy the Middle East.
THE USA HAVE NO MONEY FOR THE WAR! THEY DON'T HAVE MONEY!
They do!
They have assigned 380 billion dollars to be used in military operations abroad!
They can draw new money!
The entire budget is 600 billion! How can they use this amount abroad?
They have Afghanistan, Iraq and Syria
They will find "bushes to cut" (they will demand money from other countries)!
You are so naive!
You have a printing machine! You can print any amount of dollars!
How can the money be over? It can't be!
They will take money by involving armies of other countries in the region!
Russia can be out of money, because we don't draw it! But the USA do.
We draw, but we draw different type of money (irony)
Now let's talk about Russia
USA will do this... USA will do that... We can't guarantee any outcome of their actions!
We have a problem since the 90's. We always think that all words of the USA are 100% guaranteed predictions of the future.
This internal weakness always leads to failures!
It leads to inability of thinking in advance
We gave them an imaginary power, which they don't have at all
We are always ready to lose. They decided! They decided! Maybe they won't be successful? How can you know?
Nobody can predict the result by 100%
The same principle works for the USA
Another moment is that the USA is ready to pay additional money to save their "island" in the Middle East
Their feature is that all mistakes and losses are not fatal for them
Now, a few words about Russia: 1. It brings us closer to Iran
We can't ignore any provocations towards Iran because it's our southern neighbor
We don't have a physical border with it...
Don't forget about China!
But we have a border in Caspian Sea. We have a lot of agreements with them
about Caspian Sea. Some of them are bilateral.
This situation gives us more freedom for maneuvers as in bilateral cooperation, as well as in Syria, because our relations there are not perfect
Talking about the military stuff, it gives us an opportunity to sell more weapons, especially anti-aircraft missile systems
If they need protection in the airspace, we need to benefit from it!
Now about economy. You said that we can't supply enough planes
but we have to
We need to make efforts, and use this situation to make at least something!
There's one small problem...
Russian planes have a significant share of the parts made in the USA
all our planes do have such parts
Such small problems are everywhere!
This is our life! Do we have to solve it in complex?
Do you know the proverb? A willing person is looking for resources, while others are looking for reasons to avoid doing anything!
All these years we were looking for reasons to avoid doing anything to improve our relations with Iran
But now we need to make some efforts!
Furthermore, the oil price is growing. The more aggressive are the USA in the Middle East, the higher is the oil price.
Do you remember that many "professional" experts predicted $6 per oil barrel?
They were predicting a terrible future for us! Saying that we would lose our last pants! They said that $20 was the limit. Now it's almost $80, isn't it?
$76-77
Yes! And they are talking about "totally different results" now
A couple of months ago they claimed that the oil would never reach $100 again!
And now it's almost $80!
So all these predictions are unreliable. They can say that we need to create some alcohol when the sugar gets cheaper
and we need to buy some vodka when the sugar is expensive! - You need to be optimistic even in the worst case!
That's what I'm trying to say! You can find benefits in any situation!
This is a great name for a new book about economics!
This idea about sugar is really brilliant!
All those economical experts are always doing the same! When they are wrong, they start to talk about new unpredictable factors, bla-bla-bla
Hiding their inability to make forecasts, and showing that all these processes are not linear ones!
They don't know such term as volatility
I always thought that this word is missing S letter in the beginning (relates to Russian word сволочь, which means a bastard).
We need to understand that there's an opportunity even in the worst case!
All these attempts of the USA to create chaos allow us understanding all the hidden moments
Not only for us, but for other countries too. Look at Europe! Yes, they are weak now
yes, they are raped
and the USA will try new and new ways to rape them, but
all these things in Iran allow us to establish better relations with them
we need to make some common efforts, using the mutual objects of hate
We can create new fields for talks and communication
Iran has the same level of importance for the USA as Ukraine, maybe it's even more important
Yes, they spend more money for sure!
We need to act! Instead of waiting and saying that the USA creates chaos!
If we continue sitting and waiting like hogs, they will do whatever they want!
Your opinion brings us to the idea of the second line of the control in the Russian economy. But this term is so dangerous for liberals, that I'm scared even to pronounce it.
But I'm brave enough to say that
The second line of control?
Me and Igor were scared because the second department of KGB (it sounds similar in Russian) was searching for specific information
The first line is the government fighting with the inflation
the second line is used to create strategic development projects
I like the idea to make Russia a gate for Europeans to enter Iran. This idea can bring a lot of money.
I want to say 2 things: 1. The most popular question is related to ISIS. What's going to happen with them?
I think that they won't use only Shias. They will add some Salafis too
in fact, it looks like true. They don't really need Kurds to create something against Iran
All those left-wing politicians are living in Brussels for many years, getting free grants
So the question where to put all these guys, who were running in the desert, is an important one, and they have to put them somewhere.
The main thing is to avoid bringing them to the Central Asia
And this is a very important question too
Because if we look at the actions of the USA, we can easily see how they managed to surround Caspian Sea
Just look what they did in Kazakhstan, or what they do in such a forgotten country like Turkmenistan
And the second thing, which I want to highlight is that Trump is a great guy!
He created a goal to bring American energy commodities to Europe at any cost
He's doing that! Just look at the sanctions against Iran
Europe, especially France invested a lot of money to the oil and gas sector in Iran
They invested really a lot, and they planned to invest even more
They also wanted to build pipes to deliver oil and gas. But now they can simply forget about their investments
And no we need to understand who will supply enough energy commodities after such a fine tuned argument with Russia?
Who will supply gas? Where can they get it? A lot of nuclear stations are closed all over Europe these days
And they have to replace them with something!
And this temporary increase in oil prices is a great chance for shale gas manufacturers
and for shale oil too! They finally managed to pay their debts off!
They accumulated them for 10 years. So Trump is a great guy!
And we need to learn from him, using his geopolitical and economical logic
He's the best example of the distilled cynicism
And I've never seen anything like that before! Maybe they did the same in the 19th century
They will fail! We can write a book when they fail, and now we need to learn from them.
It's great to put dots above i, but the modern Middle East is a real mine field!
There's not enough space for maneuvers, and Trump makes everything
to start a war between all countries, like it was in the medieval times
in Europe
I can't say it's a disaster now, because things can get much worse
We are talking about Iran and Syria, but we never mentioned Yemen
This country has a lot of Iranian ventures, and Iran will protect it too
We can blame Iran for the things happening in Yemen
We can say that Iran attacks Saudi Arabia
That's why we can wait for tension there, in Lebanon and even in Palestine too
When was the last time when you visited Yemen?
A couple of years ago, but before all the events
I remember your stories about Yemen. You said that there's always some free space for new horrible events
It's a bright country. People are armed, and they always chew some kind of drug with ephedrine
And people are not scared of anything
Do they have some water? They are not interested in water because they have something to chew, and it's more than enough for them.
I don't agree! There's a lot of educated people!
If only they had a sea... actually they have one...
Can someone stop them? I don't think so, but it's possible to use their strategic location to increase the level of tension
Do you remember the Bab-el-Mandeb? It was your favorite name!
Yes, I like it! (it sounds funny in Russian, like a couple of obscene words)
I like it not because of the name, but because of the strategic location
I know that you love it not because of BAB words (rough name for a woman). But they can use it as another reason to blame Iran.
Saudi Arabia will join them too
The first increase of oil prices happened in 2015, when they discussed another war!
Not Israel-Iran war, but about a war between Iran and Saudi Arabia
And it's also possible
And this war is still actively discussed
We have a short break now
What do we have to do? Maybe it's time to return to Bab-el-Mandeb?
Maybe we need to show them the real way? Saying "Guys, if you can't solve it, let us do that"
It will be the third line of control!
We need to understand that new political reality is being created in the Middle East
The short 5-hour local war that happened yesterday
They respected borders before. Israel was making careful attacks, avoiding important objects
Syrians did the same. I say Syrians because...
Carefully is not the right word
Syrians attacked only Holland Heights.
Three Syrians were killed, and Israel said that they asked Syrians to avoid using their air defense
They used their air defense, so we had to suppress them
So they are trying to find a diplomatic way for an excuse
We won't attack Syria if they don't touch us while we are solving our own tasks related to Iraq (probably to Iran, but host said Iraq)
Another question: who attacked occupied Holland Heights?
Syrians claimed they did it, and Iran...
Are you Syrian? Why do you call them occupied?
No, the international law says that
As I know, Israel has a different opinion
They call it a territory in dispute
This attack was the biggest one since 1974
Israel used 28 aircraft to attack it
We need to understand that Russia, Iran and Turkey are three key players in the Middle East
I really love Russia... But if we check the number of equipment and soldiers there... We know how to fight, but the total number is really low
One regiment maybe...
We are working hard but... There enough soldiers because we don't have many things to do there
I know, but I want people to avoid thinking that we have the same number of soldiers as in Afghanistan
We have enough people there! There's a special peaceful center, and it works.
The key task is not to fight, but keep the peace
I think that the USA have much more soldiers and equipment there, haven't they?
They even have Special Forces too
Around 5000
Yes, that's the real number. We have to understand one thing
Officially they have only 2000
But in reality...
They are in Daara and Guta!
A couple of British agents was arrested in Guta, when the Minister of Defense went to Oman
he went to open an embassy there, and Syrians held talks...
I'm wondering if only Russia decreases its military budget among countries presented in the region?
The USA is increasing, Europe is forced to increase
France is pushed to do so
And Russia is proud to announce that we decrease our military presence there
Saudis are increasing their presence
It seems that all other countries are growing their presence...
And only Russia knows that it's not the right way
We have a lot of financial experts, who told us it's really bad to increase our military presence!
While "stupid" (irony) countries like USA and France are growing their presence there
We are smarter, and we have to be happy!
Soon they will start new military operation in the south of Syria. They have talks with Jordan and with the USA
They want to make a deal, and not a real military operation
After the presidential elections in Turkey, they will start new operation in the north too. Turkey is ready to make a deal to clear the region.
We are talking about ISIS, but we've never noticed Al Qaeda in the form of Al Nousra front, which is more dangerous than ISIS
or so-called Islamic State
This will happen, and we have to find partners, and talk with them, including the USA too
We need to be aware of the fact that the USA is in the region. Maybe they are not too powerful, but they are there
Any confrontation with them will bring a lot of problems, and everybody knows that
We need to understand that Syria is not isolated. We will talk about Iraq, Lebanon
about the creation of apolitical system there
Do they understand that all countries hate each other there?
There's a confessional resistance
I mean that Israel and Syria have no agreement
only cease-fire
All countries are fighting with each other
So, we can say that there's a war between all of them
There's an agreement to return to the borders of 1967
we need only UN resolution. Aha, let's see how they return those borders...
They will run and do everything to return the borders
So they have to make a deal, including the situation with Yemen.
Why is it great for Israel?
Let's imagine that Russia says it wants to return borders of 1976
They will be shocked!
We will cut Europe into parts
They need this conflict. They managed to solve the problem between Arabic countries and Israel
Americans are discussing the deal.
Trump will shoot, and everything will be on fire!
He won't do that!
Jerusalem is the capital...
He's not drinking like I do, but he will attack!
If the USA attack themselves or using Israeli forces...
Israel is independent enough to fight on their own
They will definitely regret about that. One can catch Americans in Afghanistan now
They can be caught in the Gulf too
Who said that?
Trump does! What's important for him?
He's preparing for the 2 term. He prepares for the preliminary elections!
He said that if he loses, he will face the impeachment!
He has two main topics now: 1. North Korea - they promise to give him the Noble Prize, and he's playing a role of a poor boy
and the second topic: if the war starts, and American soldiers start to die, he will say that he's fighting with the evil forces!
I'm the commander of the army that eliminates the evil, and you want to make the impeachment!
How long will he do that? The war with Iran is not the war with Iraq during 15 years under sanctions
They are too far behind the ocean to think about them
If you are right about the elections, we can predict that the attack will have the same character
It can be a simulation... something like...
No, he won't do that!
We can't decide for him! Look at the Syrian attack!
We can discuss, and condemn him here
While people in the USA are not even worried about that
Maybe only some experts are able to discuss it in the USA, while the majority doesn't care!
Media create an image of a successful attack, saying that Trump and his allies made an efficient attack!
He can do the same for Iran or forces of Iran in Syria, why not?
I don't believe in the big war between the USA and Iran, they can't hold it!
But they can make a simulation, in order to show that Trump is a powerful president, who's not scared of anything!
So they can do something like that. And if Trump gets the Noble Prize, we can flush that academy to the toilet once and forever!
No, I don't agree with you!
There's another problem! No money? No, there was a sexual scandal, and they decided to avoid giving the Noble Prize in the field of literature
So Trump has to deal with the... how they call it... an actress of a free genre!
Free artist! She has 2 higher educations!
A lady with low social responsibility
I want to repeat that this situation allows us to create a foundation to restore our relations with Europe!
We have to use it. Not only in a political and public ways, but...
Russia can become an intermediate between Iran and Europe
We need to work in the economical field!
I don't say it's going to be successful, but we need to try!
Especially when they say that Europe ignores us. We have a lot of topics to discuss!
You are using reframing - looking at difficult issues from a different point of view
We need to be more flexible, and use this chance!
I want to say that all things in the Middle East are not just a catastrophe; otherwise we could cry like mourners in the Bab-el-Mandeb.
It's an opportunity to become an intermediate, and save our partners!
We need to improve relations between Russia, Iran and Turkey
We need to keep this format. The USA will play against all countries
They will try to create chaos, destroying even the unions created by Moscow too
That's why we need to work with Europe! About Turkey
Turkey is really worried with the things happening with Iran. It's not something pleasant for them!
Unlike Saudi Arabia and Israel. Why? Let's remember Zbignev Bjezinski
He wrote many years ago that Iran has to be moved to the pro-Western world
Iran was like that before the revolution of 1979
And the USA is responsible for all further changes!
Yes, they are... They brought Ruhollah Khomeini from Paris
Israel asked them to solve the problem on their own
And the USA said: don't touch him!
It was told by Yakov Kedmi, but I read memoirs of another worker of Israeli Special Forces
I'm talking about Eliezer Tsafrir
He was the president of Iranian Mossad before 1979
He told me the story about French president Olivier Giscard d'Estaing
He offered to make something (like kill) Khomeini on the territory of France
But the Shah refused, because he was a bit shy person in such things
And I don't agree with Yakov Kedmi when he says that people make no sense. He's sure that all things are done by Special Forces.
In 1979 they couldn't predict that people would flood the streets
He's saying about the weakness of the regime
People in the streets had their own opinion and will
Maybe it was his idea too. I want to say that Israel will be happy to restore their positions in Iran in case
If something happens
I want to finish my idea about Turkey. Zbignev Bjezinski wrote that Iran has to be pro-Western due to many reasons
One of them was to balance the growing power of Turkey
It reminds me movies about fantastic world when a hero
needs to step on a specific tiles on the floor
It's called a bull in a china shop.. No, it's not the same
It's a mystery of the Pyramid. Yes!
The USA never says obvious things. They did everything to fire the Middle East
They made it by invading Iraq. People told them not to do that!
Yes, they gave more power to Iran in 2003
They destroyed the balance with Iran, which resulted in a catastrophe
They brought Shias to the government
They created a Shia half-moon
They were told not to touch Lebanon, but they ignored that too. Okay...
They decided to attack Libya... What did they do there?
First France, and then the USA. They were told that the entire Africa would go to Europe
All Libyan weapons were spread around the Middle East
Kaddafi took everything under control.
They were fighting for the democracy. But where is it?
None of the invaded countries has democracy now! And they won't have!
They are scared to walk in Afghanistan.
Lebanon has democracy. It's not democracy, but a will to get more money!
Iran will be another terrible catastrophe
All of you have an opinion, which looks false for me.
You say that the USA will spend a lot of money, weapons and people to increase their presence in the Middle East
You say they will continue investing a lot of money there
I haven't finished yet!
Those countries paid enough. The USA can't get more
I think they will leave the Middle East in order to get the Far East
Never!
They key threat for them is China!
It looks really strange
Today China can use their submarines in South China Sea to destroy the entire USA with nuclear weapons. It's the first time in history!
Who are neighbors of China in the Far East? Russia! Who else? Vietnam...
Burma... India....
India! There are many jungles
China has a problem with free areas, so if the USA fires all countries along the borders, they will create a lot of problems for them.
You are right, but you forgot one thing!
It can only happen if they have enough money to do that!
The USA have a lot of money, but you are wrong saying that they can print any amount of them!
They are close to a financial catastrophe!
What is the main form of it? They won't be able to fulfill their obligations!
Obligations to?
China and Russia!
What are we going to say? Give our money back?
We will, and they won't be able to return. I've never seen such a brave country.
Russia refused to give the US money in 1997.
He's a real optimist among us!
We had a default, and we had to return all the money
By saying that they want and they will add more power to the Middle East, you need to give some facts
I'm sure that they will even decrease their presence there because they have no money now
If the USA have no money... Who has it?
China!
We need to remember that the state debt of the USA is mostly owned by corporate and social structures within the USA.
So our 100 billion are not too dangerous for them
I think that the most important thing is that the USA want to created new Big Middle East, and they have a detailed plan
In Russian it's called chaos. They will leave, but they will leave to come back soon.
They will leave for a while, because they still have a chance to "suck" half of a trillion there
especially from Saudi Arabia and UAE
They will leave to come and make so-called reconstruction
Will they hit Iran now? Yes, they will
And the question is the following: What will Russia bring to that "table"?
We need a program to balance that chaos
I think that our Big Eurasia will balance the Big Middle East of the USA
They see that we are expanding our presence, working with China
with Iran, we took the leadership in Syria
so all our projects in Iran: development of Bushehr, the power plant in Bandar Abbas
we will provide electricity for the railroad from Tehran to the north
we have to develop them! We started talks with China.
About the Big Silk Road in order to combine our projects
We have to expand! I share Sergey's opinion that it's a great chance for us!
We need to hold Europe in all integration processes in the Central Asia and Big Eurasia
First of all, I'm talking about Iran
We need to use the chaos created by the USA in the political, diplomatic and military levels
We need to improve our position, working with the countries, which support the project of Big Eurasia
And we need to invite Europe to create new Big Europe keeping in mind the decision of Trump to leave the agreement!\
We have this chance!
If the USA attacks Iran, we can use it to improve our geopolitical role in the region
Do you know that space is the antonym for chaos?
So we need to create the space!
So we need to create new Universe from Vladivostok and Vietnam to Arkhangelsk!
We need to use this great opportunity!
We need to do something instead of empty talks!
I hope our new government will understand the key direction, instead of speculating in financial markets!
They need to stop investing Russian money to the USA!
They will be surprised, I'm sure!
They (government) need to watch this program! They need to come here and tell their plans!
We need to close this part, and I want to remind that new laws about sanctions include three countries
North Korea, Iran and Russia
You need to look at Iran, and understand that one day they will find enough time to implement all of them in Russia.
And we need to know that this problem won't just fade away or disappear.
It will not
And we have to solve new and different tasks
I saw new government, and I won't comment, because I want to see their actions
and real terms. So people can ask about the preliminary results and completed stages.
we have no time to prepare ourselves. The level of danger is really high!